#Commitment and Consistency
So here's the sad truth about getting better at managing projects.  You will always be dealing with amateurs. 

Why will you be dealing with amateurs? Because the kind of people who can stitch together a project, can paint a sufficently dazzling fata morgana that other people will fall for it, not only fall for it, but actually come up with the money to make it happen, aren't the kind of people who are going to worry themselves too much about the detail of how things actually get done.  They've got where they are by making shitup and winging it, they aren't going to stop now.

One way that I think about this these days is that a good project manager is like a defense lawyer.  His client gets themselves into trouble and then goes to the defense lawyer to get him out of trouble.  Actually the metaphor might be more accurate that it initially seems? What is a criminal after all but someone who tries to do something the easy way, someone who falls for simplistic approach and in his (or her) mind overstates the benefits and understates the risks and costs.  Look at the shiny jewels in the window thinks the criminal.  If I smash the window and get the jewels I'll be rich beyond my wildest dreams.  Never mind that the jewels are going to sell to a fence for a month's salary (if the thief had ever had a proper job) at most.  Never mind that there's a really, really good chance that he (or she) is going to get caught.

So, if you're a project manager, your clients will be a lot more like the clients of defence lawyers than you might care to imagine. They will have fallen for a simple, attractive idea, they will have lied to themselves and others about what the costs and risks of executing that idea are likely to be. They will have done it anyway, and now they'll be coming to you to get them out of trouble. And they'll resent that.

And those amateurs will always be giving you shit about commitment and consistency. What do I mean by commitment at consistency? Well, remember right at the start I said that this was going to be a stand-up routine.  Well, you might have take that as a commitment from me to tell some jokes that might make you laugh, and right about now, you might be feeling pretty resentful that there haven't been any. That's commitment and consistency in a nutshell.  If I promise to do something for you, you expect me to do it, and if I don't do it, then you don't like me as much and I feel bad, except in special cases, like promising you'll do that DIY at the weekend, or promising to only put the tip in.